---
category: keynote-talk
datetime_start: 2021-12-14T09:35:00Z
datetime_end  : 2021-12-14T10:20:00Z

title: Recent Advances and Applications of Two-sample Testing
speaker: Feng Liu
affiliation: University of Technology Sydney (UTS)
---

### Abstract

Two-sample tests ask, "given samples from each, are these two populations the same?" For instance, one might wish to know whether a treatment and control group differ. With very low-dimensional data and/or strong parametric assumptions, methods such as t-tests or Kolmogorov-Smirnov tests are widespread. Recent work in statistics and machine learning has sought tests that cover situations not well-handled by these classic methods, providing tools useful in machine learning for domain adaptation, causal discovery, generative modeling, fairness, adversarial learning, and more. In this talk, I will introduce two advances in the two-sample testing field: Two-sample testing under high dimensionality and few observations. I also present how to use advanced two-sample tests to defend against the adversarial attacks, which justified the significance of two-sample testing in the AI security area.

### Bio

Dr. [Feng Liu](https://fengliu90.github.io/) is a machine learning researcher with research interests in hypothesis testing and trustworthy machine learning. His long-term goal is to develop trustworthy intelligent systems that can learn reliable knowledge from massive related but different domains automatically. Currently, he is a Lecturer at the Australian Artificial Intelligence Institute (AAII), University of Technology Sydney (UTS), Australia, and  a Visiting Scientist at RIKEN-AIP, Japan. He was the recipient of Australian Laureate postdoctoral fellowship and received his Ph.D. degree in computer science at UTS-AAII in 2020, advised by Dist. Prof. Jie Lu and Prof. Guangquan Zhang.

He was a research intern with the AI Residency Program at RIKEN Center for Advanced Intelligence Project (RIKEN-AIP), working on the trustworthy domain adaptation project with Prof. Masashi Sugiyama, Dr. Gang Niu, and Dr. Bo Han. He visited Gatsby Computational Neuroscience Unit at UCL and worked on the hypothesis testing project with Prof. Arthur Gretton, Dr. Danica J. Sutherland and Wenkai Xu.

He has served as program committee (PC) members for NeurIPS, ICML, ICLR, AISTATS, ACML. He also serves as a reviewer for many academic journals, such as IEEE-TPAMI, IEEE-TNNLS, IEEE-TFS, and AMM. He has received the Outstanding Reviewer Award of NeurIPS (2021), the Outstanding Reviewer Award of ICLR (2021), the UTS-FEIT HDR Research Excellence Award (2019), the Best Student Paper Award of FUZZ-IEEE (2019) and the UTS Research Publication Award (2018).
