---
category: invited-talk
datetime_start: 2021-12-14T10:25:00Z
datetime_end  : 2021-12-14T11:10:00Z

title: "Information Geometry: An Introduction for Machine Learning"
speaker: Frank Nielsen
affiliation: Sony Computer Science Laboratories Inc. (Sony CSL)
---

### Abstract

Since its very inception [1], AI & ML have been relying on geometry and computational geometric methods thereof (e.g., MLPs, kernel SVMs).
In this talk, I will present a few geometric structures [3,4] and discuss the statistical invariance principle of information geometry [2] with some applications, opportunities and challenges for ML [5].

### References

[1] Minsky and Papert, Perceptrons: An introduction to computational geometry, MIT press, 2017. (first edition 1969)  
[2] [An Elementary Introduction to Information Geometry](https://www.mdpi.com/1099-4300/22/10/1100), Entropy, 2020.  
[3] An information-geometric characterization of Chernoff information, IEEE Signal Processing Letters 20.3 (2013): 269-272.  
[4] [Clustering in Hilbert simplex geometry](https://franknielsen.github.io/HSG/) (with Sun), Springer 2019.  
[5] Relative Fisher information and natural gradient for learning large modular models (with Sun (first author). ICML 2017.  
[6] Tractable structured natural-gradient descent using local parameterizations (with Lin (first author), Khan, and Schmidt), ICML 2021.

### Bio

[Frank Nielsen](https://franknielsen.github.io/) was awarded his PhD on adaptive computational geometry (1996) from INRIA/University of Cote d'Azur (France).
He is a fellow of Sony Computer Science Laboratories Inc. (Sony CSL, Tokyo) where he currently conducts research on the fundamentals and practice of geometric machine learning and intelligence.
He taught at Ecole Polytechnique (France) visual computing (Charles River Media textbook, 2005) and high-performance computing for data science (Springer UTICS textbook, 2016),
and currently serves the following journals: Springer Information Geometry, MDPI Entropy, and IEEE Transactions on Information Theory.
Frank Nielsen co-organizes with Frederic Barbaresco the biannual conference [Geometric Science of Information (GSI LNCS proceedings)](https://franknielsen.github.io/GSI/).
