---
category: author-talk
datetime_start: 2021-12-13T15:10:00Z
datetime_end  : 2021-12-13T15:30:00Z

title: Loss Function Based Second-order Jensen Inequality and Its Application to Particle Variational Inference
speaker: Futoshi Futami 二見 太
affiliation: NTT Communication Science Laboratories NTTコミュニケーション科学基礎研究所
---

[[OpenReview]](https://openreview.net/forum?id=St4i_-UoQWQ)
[[Conference]](https://neurips.cc/Conferences/2021/Schedule?showEvent=27276)
[[Proceeding]](https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper/2021/hash/36165c62f7b7df72863d470d73302627-Abstract.html)

**Futoshi Futami**, Tomoharu Iwata, Naonori Ueda, Issei Sato, Masashi Sugiyama

Bayesian model averaging, obtained as the expectation of a likelihood function by a posterior distribution, has been widely used for prediction, evaluation of uncertainty, and model selection. Various approaches have been developed to efficiently capture the information in the posterior distribution; one such approach is the optimization of a set of models simultaneously with interaction to ensure the diversity of the individual models in the same way as ensemble learning. A representative approach is particle variational inference (PVI), which uses an ensemble of models as an empirical approximation for the posterior distribution. PVI iteratively updates each model with a repulsion force to ensure the diversity of the optimized models. However, despite its promising performance, a theoretical understanding of this repulsion and its association with the generalization ability remains unclear. In this paper, we tackle this problem in light of PAC-Bayesian analysis. First, we provide a new second-order Jensen inequality, which has the repulsion term based on the loss function. Thanks to the repulsion term, it is tighter than the standard Jensen inequality. Then, we derive a novel generalization error bound and show that it can be reduced by enhancing the diversity of models. Finally, we derive a new PVI that optimizes the generalization error bound directly. Numerical experiments demonstrate that the performance of the proposed PVI compares favorably with existing methods in the experiment.
